In this end of chapter review lab,
we are going to use both methods
that we discussed in this chapter.
So first we are going to use
the OpenShift extension to
Quarkus and deploy an application
using a Source-to-Image build
and then we're going to login to
the OpenShift web console and
deploy a pre-fabricated
image. Running the lab
deploy-review start script,
which makes sure that the deploy-review
project is created.
We can then source
the OpenShift configuration if you
haven't yet in the current terminal,
and login to OpenShift again,
if you haven't yet.
Now, the project, the only
project that should exist
in your user account should
be selected automatically.
If it is not, then simply
issue oc project command,
switching to deploy-review
suffix by your username.
Go into the source code directory.
In the /labs/deploy-revie/microservice-speaker location
we have the microservice
that we've already reviewed
in previous exercises.
We have a look at the source code and
the resources associated with it.
We can see that this is
the familiar DAO service,
the speaker model object,
and the resource, which
is the web service,
as I have an application properties
and an import.sql file.
Now we are going to add the quarkus
openshift extension to this project.
Alternatively, instead of
using quarku:add-extension,
of course you can add this
dependency manually to pom xml.
Then we are going to do a package,
but with the options of quarkus.
kubernetes.deploy equals true.
quarkus.kubernetes.expose equals true
and we are going to also ask for
the swagger-ui to be included
in the resulting application.
We could just as well put
these 3 properties into the
application properties file
but just for clarity,
here they are on the command line.
Now as the build proceeds and the
tests are successfully executed,
we can see that eventually the OpenShift
source-to-image build is started.
The image streams for the base and
application image are created,
the build configuration is
created and then a build starts.
Once that build completes,
we can also see that the
applications in deployed,
creating a service DeploymentConfig
and a Route.
So it becomes accessible at
this particular host name.
Now let's switch to the Red Hat
Online Learning Environment,
lab environment tab, where you have
the OpenShift Details section.
We are going to use the link from this
section to open the web console.
So simply clicking on the
link we will open in a new tab.
Once the login screen loads,
we can simply login using
our username and the password from
the OpenShift Details section.
And we will be, should be placed into
the Developer perspective by default.
Looking at the Topology,
now of course, we have to
select a project before we
can see the application
topology in, here we go.
There's the microservice
speaker application
we have just deployed using Quarkus.
Now let's also deploy a new application,
the microservice for the
schedule application.
Let's click Add here and scroll
a little bit further down,
we see the container image
section. We'll enter quay.io/
redhattraining/
quarkus-conference-schedule image.
We can just leave all the
others settings as default,
simply scroll down and make sure
that Create a route to the
application is checked.
Then click Create.
Now we will be able to see
the quarkus schedule application appear
next to the microservice speaker 1.
Note that while the microservice
speaker has a build associated
with it, that's a little green circle in
the bottom left corner next to it.
There is no such thing,
with the quarkus schedule application.
Now if we click on the link in
the top right corner of the schedule
application open URL,
it should open in a new tab.
If we just add /swagger-ui to it,
we are going to be able to see all the
endpoints published by this application and
let's just try out the /schedule/all
endpoint with the GET method,
which will show us hopefully
all the existing schedules.
When we click Execute, here they are.
Right!
Let's run the grading scripts
to see that we've done, we've
performed all the exercise steps
correctly. So lab deploy-
review grade.
Once you get all the passing scores,
simply clean up after the
exercise running lab deploy-
review finish.
And then join us in the next chapter,
where we are going to have a look at how
to build microservice applications
with Quarkus. See you there.